docs: oauth2 token prefixes (#1794)
ory/docs: docs/self-hosted/oel/oauth2/token-prefix.mdx

---
id: token-prefix
title: Custom OAuth2 Token Prefix
sidebar_label: Custom Token Prefix
---

> # Configurable Token Prefix for OAuth2 Tokens

Reviewer: Do you want to override the `title` here? 
Usually you don't set a H1 since its already generated through `title`

```suggestion
```

Author: Ah, sorry, yes this was intentional for SEO

This documentation explains how to configure the token prefix for OAuth2 access tokens, refresh tokens, and authorization codes.
By default, all tokens use the `ory_%s_` template, where `%s` is replaced with the token type.

> Customizing the token prefix is available exclusively to Ory Enterprise License customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customizing the token prefix is available to Ory Enterprise License users.
```

exclusively is a [weasel word](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weasel_word)

## Default Token Prefix

By default, OAuth2 tokens use the following template: `ory_%s_`. The `%s` is a placeholder that will be replaced by the specific
token type:

- `rt` for refresh tokens
- `at` for access tokens
- `ac` for authorization codes

### Examples:

- Refresh Token: `ory_rt_...`
- Access Token: `ory_at_...`
- Authorization Code: `ory_ac_...`

## Customizing the Token Prefix

With the `oauth2.token_prefix` configuration key, you can customize the prefix for your OAuth2 tokens. This key is only available
to Ory Enterprise License customers.

### How to Configure

1. **Locate the Configuration File**: Open your Ory configuration file.
2. **Set the `oauth2.token_prefix` Key**: Add or modify the `oauth2.token_prefix` key in your configuration file.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
oauth2:
  token_prefix: "acme_token_%s_"
```

In this example, tokens will use the `acme_token_%s_` template. The `%s` placeholder for the token type must always be included in
the template.

### Resulting Tokens

- Refresh Token: `acme_token_rt_...`
- Access Token: `acme_token_at_...`
- Authorization Code: `acme_token_ac_...`

> ## Important Notes

Reviewer: maybe rather use :::info here and put it at the top of the document, then we also dont need to mention 4 times that this is only available for OEL in this short document.

- **Enterprise Feature**: This feature is available only for Ory Enterprise License customers.
- **Template Requirement**: The `%s` placeholder must be included in the custom template to indicate the token type.

## JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) Exception

JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) will never be prefixed because it would violate the JWT format. This applies to:

- **ID Tokens**: These are always JWTs and will never be prefixed.
- **JWT Access Tokens**: If you are using JWTs as access tokens, they will also not be prefixed.

> ## Getting Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting Support
```

Might also be better as an :::info callout.

> For more information or to enable this feature, please [contact us](https://www.ory.sh/contact). Our team is here to assist you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information or to enable this feature, please [contact Ory Support](https://www.ory.sh/contact). The team is here to assist you
```

[Avoid plural first person (we, us)
](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/person#avoid-plural-first-person-we-us)

with any questions or support you may need.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: IMO this section does not add anything to the doc and can be removed.

Customizing the token prefix allows for better integration and token management. By following the steps outlined in this

> documentation, you can easily configure the token prefix to match your organization's needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentation, you can configure the token prefix to match your organization's needs.
```

easily is a weasel word
